README.md, before:

# Versatile Postfix Mail Server (marvambass/versatile-postfix)
_maintained by MarvAmBass_

[FAQ - All you need to know about the marvambass Containers](https://marvin.im/docker-faq-all-you-need-to-know-about-the-marvambass-containers/)

## What is it

This Dockerfile (available as ___marvambass/versatile-postfix___) gives you a completly versatile postfix
mailserver.

It signs outgoing mails with DKIM by default. You can initially create one Domain with different users with there passwords.

This is not a POP3 or IMAP server, you will get incomming E-Mails in the __Maildir__ format. Read it with less or link a IMAP Server to the volume.

View in Docker Registry [marvambass/versatile-postfix](https://registry.hub.docker.com/u/marvambass/versatile-postfix/)

View in GitHub [MarvAmBass/docker-versatile-postfix](https://github.com/MarvAmBass/docker-versatile-postfix/)

## Environment variables and defaults

* __ALIASES__
 * optional, no default, example usage: "postmaster:root;john:root;j.doe:root"
* __DISABLE\_DKIM__
 * default: not set - if set to any value the DKIM Signing will be deactivated
* __DKIM\_CANONICALIZATION__
 * default: _simple_ - can be either _relaxed_ or _simple_


## Running the Mailserver

This Dockerfile is build to be as versatile as possible.
Therefore the startup script takes care of all the important things.

You can easily create a new Mailserver for a domain with several users.

Keep in mind, this is a smtp server only.
To read recievied mails you should link a folder inside the conatiner.
Otherwise all mails will get lost after you delete your container.

To create a new postfix server for your domain you should use the following commands:

	docker run -p 25:25 -v /maildirs:/var/mail \
		-v /dkim:/etc/postfix/dkim/ \
		-e 'ALIASES=postmaster:root;hostmaster:root;webmaster:root' \
		marvambass/versatile-postfix \
		yourdomain.com \
		user:password \
		user1:password \
		user2:password \
		userN:password

this creates a new smtp server which listens on port _25_, stores mail beneath _/mailsdirs_.

The _/dkim_ directory has to contain a DKIM-Key _(see above)_ with the name __dkim.key__

It has serveral user accounts like _user1_ with password "_password_" and
a mail address _user1@yourdomain.com_

## DKIM

This Server uses DKIM by default. So we need our DKIM Keys.
If you don't have a DKIM Key, the Server will generate it on the first start.
Just be sure, that you make the directory ___/etc/postfix/dkim/___ available and
install the logged public key to your DNS System

### More about DKIM
To generate those keys you'll need the opendkim tools

	apt-get install opendkim-tools

This generates a new certificate for @example.com with selector (_-s_) _mail_. If you want to Test DKIM first, add _-t_ argument which stands for test-mode.

	opendkim-genkey -s mail -d example.com

Just put the file _mail.private_ as _dkim.key_ inside the dkim directory you'll later link into the container using _-v_.

The _mail.txt_ should be imported into the DNS System. Add a new _TXT-Record_ for _mail_.\_domainkey [selector.\_domainkey]. And add as value the String starting "_v=DKIM1;..._" from the _mail.txt_ file.

Thats all you need for DKIM

## Testing SMTP Mail recivieing

	$ mailx -r "sender@example.com" -s "Test Mail Subject" user1@yourdomain.com < /etc/hosts

## Testing the SMTP Auth and SMTP sending via telnet:

	$ echo -ne '\0user\0password' | openssl enc -base64
	AHVzZXIAcGFzc3dvcmQ=

	$ telnet 127.0.0.1 25
	Trying 192.168.4.55...
	Connected to yourdomain.com.
	Escape character is '^]'.
	220 yourdomain.com ESMTP
	ehlo test
	250-yourdomain.com
	250-PIPELINING
	250-SIZE 10240000
	250-VRFY
	250-ETRN
	250-STARTTLS
	250-AUTH LOGIN PLAIN
	250 8BITMIME
	auth plain AHVzZXIAcGFzc3dvcmQ=
	235 Authentication successful
	mail from: user@yourdomain.com
	250 2.1.0 Ok
	rcpt to: mail@example.com
	250 2.1.5 Ok
	data
	354 End data with <CR><LF>.<CR><LF>
	Hi there
	this is just a basic test message
	.
	250 2.0.0 Ok: queued as 2E7FB27F
	quit
	221 Bye
	Connection closed by foreign host.

## Links

[DKIM Keycheck](http://dkimcore.org/c/keycheck)

[DKIM more Infos and signature check](http://www.elandsys.com/resources/mail/dkim/opendkim.html)

Commit message:

Support setting domain and single user via env vars

README.md, after:

# Versatile Postfix Mail Server (marvambass/versatile-postfix)
_maintained by MarvAmBass_

[FAQ - All you need to know about the marvambass Containers](https://marvin.im/docker-faq-all-you-need-to-know-about-the-marvambass-containers/)

## What is it

This Dockerfile (available as ___marvambass/versatile-postfix___) gives you a completly versatile postfix
mailserver.

It signs outgoing mails with DKIM by default. You can initially create one Domain with different users with there passwords.

This is not a POP3 or IMAP server, you will get incomming E-Mails in the __Maildir__ format. Read it with less or link a IMAP Server to the volume.

View in Docker Registry [marvambass/versatile-postfix](https://registry.hub.docker.com/u/marvambass/versatile-postfix/)

View in GitHub [MarvAmBass/docker-versatile-postfix](https://github.com/MarvAmBass/docker-versatile-postfix/)

## Environment variables and defaults

* __ALIASES__
 * optional, no default, example usage: "postmaster:root;john:root;j.doe:root"
* __DISABLE\_DKIM__
 * default: not set - if set to any value the DKIM Signing will be deactivated
* __DKIM\_CANONICALIZATION__
 * default: _simple_ - can be either _relaxed_ or _simple_


## Running the Mailserver

This Dockerfile is build to be as versatile as possible.
Therefore the startup script takes care of all the important things.

You can easily create a new Mailserver for a domain with several users.

Keep in mind, this is a smtp server only.
To read recievied mails you should link a folder inside the conatiner.
Otherwise all mails will get lost after you delete your container.

To create a new postfix server for your domain you should use the following commands:

	docker run -p 25:25 -v /maildirs:/var/mail \
		-v /dkim:/etc/postfix/dkim/ \
		-e 'ALIASES=postmaster:root;hostmaster:root;webmaster:root' \
		marvambass/versatile-postfix \
		yourdomain.com \
		user:password \
		user1:password \
		user2:password \
		userN:password

this creates a new smtp server which listens on port _25_, stores mail beneath _/mailsdirs_.

The _/dkim_ directory has to contain a DKIM-Key _(see above)_ with the name __dkim.key__

It has several user accounts like _user1_ with password "_password_" and
a mail address _user1@yourdomain.com_

## Setting host and single user/password with environment variables
You can alternatively set the HOST, USER and PASSWORD environment variables:

	docker run -p 25:25 -v /maildirs:/var/mail \
		-v /dkim:/etc/postfix/dkim/ \
		-e 'ALIASES=postmaster:root;hostmaster:root;webmaster:root' \
    -e 'HOST=yourdomain.com' \
    -e 'USER=user' \
    -e 'PASSWORD=password' \
		marvambass/versatile-postfix

This change simplifies integrating this postfix service with docker-compose.

## DKIM

This Server uses DKIM by default. So we need our DKIM Keys.
If you don't have a DKIM Key, the Server will generate it on the first start.
Just be sure, that you make the directory ___/etc/postfix/dkim/___ available and
install the logged public key to your DNS System

### More about DKIM
To generate those keys you'll need the opendkim tools

	apt-get install opendkim-tools

This generates a new certificate for @example.com with selector (_-s_) _mail_. If you want to Test DKIM first, add _-t_ argument which stands for test-mode.

	opendkim-genkey -s mail -d example.com

Just put the file _mail.private_ as _dkim.key_ inside the dkim directory you'll later link into the container using _-v_.

The _mail.txt_ should be imported into the DNS System. Add a new _TXT-Record_ for _mail_.\_domainkey [selector.\_domainkey]. And add as value the String starting "_v=DKIM1;..._" from the _mail.txt_ file.

Thats all you need for DKIM

## Testing SMTP Mail recivieing

	$ mailx -r "sender@example.com" -s "Test Mail Subject" user1@yourdomain.com < /etc/hosts

## Testing the SMTP Auth and SMTP sending via telnet:

	$ echo -ne '\0user\0password' | openssl enc -base64
	AHVzZXIAcGFzc3dvcmQ=

	$ telnet 127.0.0.1 25
	Trying 192.168.4.55...
	Connected to yourdomain.com.
	Escape character is '^]'.
	220 yourdomain.com ESMTP
	ehlo test
	250-yourdomain.com
	250-PIPELINING
	250-SIZE 10240000
	250-VRFY
	250-ETRN
	250-STARTTLS
	250-AUTH LOGIN PLAIN
	250 8BITMIME
	auth plain AHVzZXIAcGFzc3dvcmQ=
	235 Authentication successful
	mail from: user@yourdomain.com
	250 2.1.0 Ok
	rcpt to: mail@example.com
	250 2.1.5 Ok
	data
	354 End data with <CR><LF>.<CR><LF>
	Hi there
	this is just a basic test message
	.
	250 2.0.0 Ok: queued as 2E7FB27F
	quit
	221 Bye
	Connection closed by foreign host.

## Links

[DKIM Keycheck](http://dkimcore.org/c/keycheck)

[DKIM more Infos and signature check](http://www.elandsys.com/resources/mail/dkim/opendkim.html)
